Add Grafana Beyla Flow component (#6789)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/beyla.ebpf.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/beyla.ebpf/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/beyla.ebpf/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/beyla.ebpf/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/agent/flow/reference/components/beyla.ebpf/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/beyla.ebpf/
description: Learn about beyla.ebpf
title: beyla.ebpf
---

> # beyla.ebpf

Reviewer: Shall we mention that this component might be some versions behind the `latest` version of Beyla?

Author: I think is usually not necesary specify the version of that a component uses. @ptodev do you have any insights here? We probably should mark as beta, what do you think?

Reviewer: I'm thinking in the time between we publish a new Beyla version with new public features and we later update the Beyla library here (and publish a new version of the Agent)... maybe a user would expect that a given feature is working already in the Agent.

> The `beyla.ebpf` component is used a wrapper of [Grafana Beyla][] which collects metrics and traces from eBPF programs running on the host. The component can be configured to collect data from a specific port or executable name, and other criteria from Kubernetes metadata. The component can  be scraped by Prometheus and can send traces to an OpenTelemetry Collector.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to explicitly mention that OTel metrics are not supported at the moment? It might be easy to overlook...

Reviewer 3: +1 this would be good to mention, as it's not immediately clear to me. 

I think this is best mentioned in the section for the `output` block.

Author: Clarified in the `output` section. @grcevski let me know if it's clear enough

{{< admonition type="note" >}}

> To run this component, the Agent requires administrative (`sudo`) privileges, or at least it needs to be granted the `CAP_SYS_ADMIN` capability.

Reviewer 2: We also need CAP_SYS_PTRACE and when running in k8s we should mention that app armour must be disabled for the deployment, e.g:

```
container.apparmor.security.beta.kubernetes.io/beyla: "unconfined" 
```

{{< /admonition >}}

[Grafana Beyla]: https://github.com/grafana/beyla

## Usage

```river
beyla.ebpf "LABEL" {
 
}
```

## Arguments

`beyla.ebpf` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description                                               | Default | Required
---- | ---- |-----------------------------------------------------------| ------- | --------
`open_port` | `string` | The port of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF. | | no
`excutable_name` | `string` | The name of the executable to match. | | no

> `open_port` accepts a comma-separated list of ports (for example, 80), and port ranges (for example, 8000-8999). If the executable matching only one of the ports in the list, it is considered to match the selection criteria.

Reviewer 3: nit: your example of a coma-separated list of ports is not a comma-separated list of ports :)

discovery | [discovery][] | Configures the discovery for instrumentable processes matching a given criteria. | no
discovery > services | [services][] | Configures the discovery for the component. | no
output | [output][] | Configures where to send received telemetry data. | yes

The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example,
`attributes > kubernetes` refers to a `kubernetes` block defined inside an
`attributes` block.

[routes]: #routes-block
[attributes]: #attributes-block
[kubernetes]: #kubernetes-block
[discovery]: #discovery-block
[services]: #services-block
[output]: #output-block

### attributes block

Allows configuring how some attributes for metrics and traces are decorate.

Contains the following blocks:
[kubernetes]: #kubernetes-block

#### kubernetes block

If you run this in a Kubernetes environment, you can configure it to decorate the traces and metrics with the Standard OpenTelemetry labels:

- `k8s.namespace.name`
- `k8s.deployment.name`
- `k8s.statefulset.name`
- `k8s.replicaset.name`
- `k8s.daemonset.name`
- `k8s.node.name`
- `k8s.pod.name`
- `k8s.pod.uid`

> - `k8s.pod.start_time`

Reviewer 3: nit: for consistency with how we document components, it's a bit weird for all this information to be before the table. Should this be moved down to after the table?

canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/beyla.ebpf/
description: Learn about beyla.ebpf
title: beyla.ebpf
---

# beyla.ebpf

The `beyla.ebpf` component is used a wrapper of [Grafana Beyla][] which uses [eBPF][] to automatically inspect application executables and the OS networking layer, and capture trace spans related to web transactions and Rate Errors Duration (RED) metrics for Linux HTTP/S and gRPC services. The component can be configured to collect telemetry data from a specific port or executable path, and other criteria from Kubernetes metadata. The component exposes metrics which can be collected by a Prometheus scrape component, and traces which can be forwared to a OTEL exporter component.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
To run this component, the Agent requires administrative (`sudo`) privileges, or at least it needs to be granted the `CAP_SYS_ADMIN` and `CAP_SYS_PTRACE` capability. In Kubernetes environemnets, app armour must be disabled for the Deployment  or DaemonSet running the Agent.
{{< /admonition >}}

[Grafana Beyla]: https://github.com/grafana/beyla
[eBPF]: https://ebpf.io/

## Usage

```river

> beyla.ebpf "LABEL" {
>  
> }

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
beyla.ebpf "<LABEL>" {

}
```

```

## Arguments

`beyla.ebpf` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description                                               | Default | Required
---- | ---- |-----------------------------------------------------------| ------- | --------
`open_port` | `string` | The port of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF. | | no
`excutable_name` | `string` | The name of the executable to match for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF. | | no

> `open_port` accepts a comma-separated list of ports (for example, `80,443`), and port ranges (for example, `8000-8999`). If the executable matching only one of the ports in the list, it is considered to match the selection criteria.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`open_port` accepts a comma-separated list of ports (for example, `80,443`), and port ranges (for example, `8000-8999`).
If the executable matches only one of the ports in the list, it is considered to match the selection criteria.
```

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `beyla.ebpf`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------
routes | [routes][] | Configures the routes to match HTTP paths into user-provided HTTP routes. | no
attributes | [attributes][] | Configures the Beyla attributes for the component. | no
attributes > kubernetes | [kubernetes][] | Configures decorationg of the metrics and traces with Kubernetes metadata of the instrumented Pods. | no
discovery | [discovery][] | Configures the discovery for instrumentable processes matching a given criteria. | no
discovery > services | [services][] | Configures the discovery for the component. | no
output | [output][] | Configures where to send received telemetry data. | yes

The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example,
`attributes > kubernetes` refers to a `kubernetes` block defined inside an
`attributes` block.

[routes]: #routes-block
[attributes]: #attributes-block
[kubernetes]: #kubernetes-block
[discovery]: #discovery-block
[services]: #services-block
[output]: #output-block

### attributes block

> Allows configuring how some attributes for metrics and traces are decorate.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Allows configuring how some attributes for metrics and traces are decorated.
```

- `k8s.namespace.name`
- `k8s.deployment.name`
- `k8s.statefulset.name`
- `k8s.replicaset.name`
- `k8s.daemonset.name`
- `k8s.node.name`
- `k8s.pod.name`
- `k8s.pod.uid`
- `k8s.pod.start_time`

If set to `false`, the Kubernetes metadata decorator will be disabled.

If set to `autodetect`, Beyla will try to automatically detect if it is running inside Kubernetes, and enable the metadata decoration if that is the case.

### routes block

This block is used to configure the routes to match HTTP paths into user-provided HTTP routes.

Name | Type | Description                                               | Default | Required
---- | ---- |-----------------------------------------------------------| ------- | --------
`patterns` | `list(string)` | List of provided URL path patterns to set the `http.route` trace/metric property | | no
`ignore_patterns` | `list(string)` | List of provided URL path patterns to ignore from `http.route` trace/metric property. | | no
`ignore_mode` | `string` | The mode to use when ignoring patterns. | | no
`unmatched` | `string` | Specifies what to do when a trace HTTP path does not match any of the `patterns` entries | | no

> `patterns` and `ignored_patterns` are a list of patterns which a URL path with specific tags which allow for grouping path segments (or ignored them). The matcher tags can be in the `:name` or `{name}` format.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`patterns` and `ignored_patterns` are a list of patterns which a URL path with specific tags which allow for grouping path segments (or ignored them).
The matcher tags can be in the `:name` or `{name}` format.
```

Just a line break

> `ignore_mode` property are:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`ignore_mode` properties are:
```

> - `all` will discard both metrics and traces which match the `ignored_patterns`.
> - `traces` will discard only the traces which match the `ignored_patterns`. No metric events will be ignored.
> - `metrics` will discard only the metrics which match the `ignored_patterns`. No trace events will be ignored.
> `unmatched` property are:
> - `unset` will leave the `http.route` property as unset.
> - `path` will copy the `http.route` field property to the path value.
>   - caution: this option could lead to cardinality explosion at the ingester side.
> - `wildcard` will set the `http.route` field property to a generic asterisk based `/**` value.
> - `heuristic` will automatically derive the `http.route` field property from the path value, based on the following rules:
>   - Any path components which have numbers or characters outside of the ASCII alphabet (or `-` and _), will be replaced by an asterisk `*`.
>   - Any alphabetical components which don’t look like words, will be replaced by an asterisk `*`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `all` discards both metrics and traces that match the `ignored_patterns`.
- `traces` discards only the traces that match the `ignored_patterns`. No metric events are ignored.
- `metrics` discards only the metrics that match the `ignored_patterns`. No trace events are ignored.
`unmatched` properties are:
- `unset` leaves the `http.route` property as unset.
- `path` copies the `http.route` field property to the path value.
  - Caution: this option could lead to a cardinality explosion at the ingester side.
- `wildcard` sets the `http.route` field property to a generic asterisk based `/**` value.
- `heuristic` automatically derives the `http.route` field property from the path value, based on the following rules:
  - Any path components that have numbers or characters outside of the ASCII alphabet (or `-` and _), are replaced by an asterisk `*`.
  - Any alphabetical components that don’t look like words, are replaced by an asterisk `*`.
```

### discovery block

This block is used to configure the discovery for instrumentable processes matching a given criteria.

Contains the following blocks:
[services]: #services-block

### services block

> In some scenarios, Beyla will instrument a big variety of services; for example, as a Kubernetes DaemonSet that instruments all the services in a node. This block allows you to filter the services to instrument based on their metadata.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In some scenarios, Beyla will instrument a big variety of services, for example, as a Kubernetes DaemonSet that instruments all the services in a node.
This block allows you to filter the services to instrument based on their metadata.
```

Name | Type | Description                                               | Default | Required
---- | ---- |-----------------------------------------------------------| ------- | --------
`name ` | `string` | The name of the service to match. | | no
`namespace` | `string` | The namespace of the service to match. | | no
`open_ports` | `string` | The port of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF. | | no
`path` | `string` | The path of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF. | | no

> `name` defines a name for the matching instrumented service. It will be used to populate the `service.name` OTEL property and/or the `service_name` Prometheus property in the exported metrics/traces.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`name` defines a name for the matching instrumented service. It is used to populate the `service.name` OTEL property and/or the `service_name` Prometheus property in the exported metrics/traces.
```

> `open_port` accepts a comma-separated list of ports (for example, `80,443`), and port ranges (for example, `8000-8999`). If the executable matching only one of the ports in the list, it is considered to match the selection criteria.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`open_port` accepts a comma-separated list of ports (for example, `80,443`), and port ranges (for example, `8000-8999`). If the executable matches only one of the ports in the list, it is considered to match the selection criteria.
```

The following arguments are supported:

Name      | Type                     | Description                           | Default | Required
----------|--------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------|---------
`traces`  | `list(otelcol.Consumer)` | List of consumers to send traces to.  | `[]`    | no

You must specify the `output` block, but all its arguments are optional.
By default, telemetry data is dropped.
Configure the `traces` argument accordingly to send traces data to other components.

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
----------|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect metrics of instrumented services with eBPF.

For example, the `targets` can either be passed to a `discovery.relabel` component to rewrite the targets' label sets or to a `prometheus.scrape` component that collects the exposed metrics.

The exported targets use the configured [in-memory traffic][] address specified by the [run command][].

> [in-memory traffic]: {{< relref "../../concepts/component_controller.md#in-memory-traffic" >}}
> [run command]: {{< relref "../cli/run.md" >}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[in-memory traffic]: ../../../concepts/component_controller#in-memory-traffic
[run command]: ../../cli/run/
```

We should not be using relref links in any new documentation. The relref short code is deprecated.

## Component health

`beyla.ebpf` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`beyla.ebpf` does not expose any component-specific debug
information.

## Example

### Metrics

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics from `beyla.ebpf` of
the specified port:

```river
beyla.ebpf "default" {

>     open_port = OPEN_PORT

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    open_port = <OPEN_PORT>
```

}

prometheus.scrape "beyla" {
  targets = beyla.ebpf.default.targets
  forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.mimir.receiver]
}

prometheus.remote_write "demo" {
  endpoint {

>     url = PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL
> 
>     basic_auth {
>       username = USERNAME
>       password = PASSWORD

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    url = <PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL>

    basic_auth {
      username = <USERNAME>
      password = <PASSWORD>
```

    }
  }
}
```

Replace the following:

> - `OPEN_PORT`: The port of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF.
> - `PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL`: The URL of the Prometheus remote_write-compatible server to send metrics to.
> - `USERNAME`: The username to use for authentication to the remote_write API.
> - `PASSWORD`: The password to use for authentication to the remote_write API.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- _`<OPEN_PORT>`_: The port of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF.
- _`<PROMETHEUS_REMOTE_WRITE_URL>`_: The URL of the Prometheus remote_write-compatible server to send metrics to.
- _`<USERNAME>`_: The username to use for authentication to the remote_write API.
- _`<PASSWORD>`_: The password to use for authentication to the remote_write API.
```

> [scrape]: {{< relref "./prometheus.scrape.md" >}}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[scrape]: ../prometheus.scrape/
```

### Traces

This example gets traces from `beyla.ebpf` and forwards them to `otlp`:

```river
beyla.ebpf "default" {

>     open_port = OPEN_PORT

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    open_port = <OPEN_PORT>
```

    output {
        traces = [otelcol.processor.batch.default.input]
    }
}

otelcol.processor.batch "default" {
    output {
        traces  = [otelcol.exporter.otlp.default.input]
    }
}

otelcol.exporter.otlp "default" {
    client {

>         endpoint = env("OTLP_ENDPOINT")

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        endpoint = env("<OTLP_ENDPOINT>")
```

    }
}
```

> - `OPEN_PORT`: The port of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF.
> - `OTLP_ENDPOINT`: The endpoint of the OpenTelemetry Collector to send traces to.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Replace the following:

- _`<OPEN_PORT>`_: The port of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF.
- _`<OTLP_ENDPOINT>`_: The endpoint of the OpenTelemetry Collector to send traces to.
```

`patterns` | `list(string)` | List of provided URL path patterns to set the `http.route` trace/metric property | | no
`ignore_patterns` | `list(string)` | List of provided URL path patterns to ignore from `http.route` trace/metric property. | | no
`ignore_mode` | `string` | The mode to use when ignoring patterns. | | no
`unmatched` | `string` | Specifies what to do when a trace HTTP path does not match any of the `patterns` entries | | no

`patterns` and `ignored_patterns` are a list of patterns which a URL path with specific tags which allow for grouping path segments (or ignored them).
The matcher tags can be in the `:name` or `{name}` format.
`ignore_mode` properties are:
- `all` discards both metrics and traces that match the `ignored_patterns`.
- `traces` discards only the traces that match the `ignored_patterns`. No metric events are ignored.
- `metrics` discards only the metrics that match the `ignored_patterns`. No trace events are ignored.
`unmatched` properties are:
- `unset` leaves the `http.route` property as unset.
- `path` copies the `http.route` field property to the path value.

>   - Caution: this option could lead to a cardinality explosion at the ingester side.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Caution: This option could lead to a cardinality explosion on the ingester side.
```

> - `wildcard` sets the `http.route` field property to a generic asterisk based `/**` value.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `wildcard` sets the `http.route` field property to a generic asterisk-based `/**` value.
```

> - `heuristic` automatically derives the `http.route` field property from the path value, based on the following rules:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `heuristic` automatically derives the `http.route` field property from the path value based on the following rules:
```

  - Any path components that have numbers or characters outside of the ASCII alphabet (or `-` and _), are replaced by an asterisk `*`.

>   - Any alphabetical components that don’t look like words, are replaced by an asterisk `*`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Any alphabetical components that don’t look like words are replaced by an asterisk `*`.
```

### discovery block

This block is used to configure the discovery for instrumentable processes matching a given criteria.

> Contains the following blocks:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It contains the following blocks:
```

[services]: #services-block

### services block

> In some scenarios, Beyla will instrument a big variety of services, for example, as a Kubernetes DaemonSet that instruments all the services in a node.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In some scenarios, Beyla will instrument a wide variety of services, such as a Kubernetes DaemonSet that instruments all the services in a node.
```

Name | Type | Description                                               | Default | Required
---- | ---- |-----------------------------------------------------------| ------- | --------
`name ` | `string` | The name of the service to match. | | no
`namespace` | `string` | The namespace of the service to match. | | no
`open_ports` | `string` | The port of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF. | | no
`path` | `string` | The path of the running service for Beyla automatically instrumented with eBPF. | | no

`name` defines a name for the matching instrumented service. It is used to populate the `service.name` OTEL property and/or the `service_name` Prometheus property in the exported metrics/traces.
`open_port` accepts a comma-separated list of ports (for example, `80,443`), and port ranges (for example, `8000-8999`). If the executable matches only one of the ports in the list, it is considered to match the selection criteria.
`path` accepts a regular expression to be matched against the full executable command line, including the directory where the executable resides on the file system.

### output block

> The `output` block configures a set of components to forward resulting telemetry data to.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `output` block configures a set of components to forward the resulting telemetry data to.
```

The following arguments are supported:

Name      | Type                     | Description                           | Default | Required
----------|--------------------------|---------------------------------------|---------|---------
`traces`  | `list(otelcol.Consumer)` | List of consumers to send traces to.  | `[]`    | no

You must specify the `output` block, but all its arguments are optional.
By default, telemetry data is dropped.

> Configure the `traces` argument accordingly to send traces data to other components.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Configure the `traces` argument to send traces data to other components.
```
